README.adoc, before:

= `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf`

The goal of this project is to implement two https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/[`Spring Boot`]
applications: `product-api` and `product-ui`. `product-api` is a Restful Web Service that manages products. It uses
https://www.elastic.co[`Elasticsearch`] as storage. `product-ui` is a client of `product-api`. It uses
https://www.thymeleaf.org/[`Thymeleaf`] as HTML template.

== Start Environment

Open a terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder run

[source]
----
docker-compose up -d
----

Wait a little bit until the docker containers are up and healthy. To check it, run

[source]
----
docker-compose ps
----

== Configure index, alias and insert some products in ES

In a terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf/scripts`, run the following script to create the
index `ecommerce_v1` with the alias `ecommerce`

[source]
----
./create-index.sh
----

If you want to insert some products, run

[source]
----
./insert-products.sh
----

If you want to fix the `reference` property mapping error (explained below), run

[source]
----
./reindex.sh
----

=== Reindex

The script `./reindex.sh` is used to reindex from an index to another index. The default will reindex from `ecommerce_v1`
to `ecommerce_v2`. The only difference between `mapping-v1.json` (used by `ecommerce_v1`) to `mapping-v2.json` (used by
`ecommerce_v2`) is the `type` of the `reference` property. In the former is set `text` and in the latter, `keyword`.

It is interesting because, the `reference` property has some special characters. An example of `reference` code is
`SBES@DDR4-10000`. As it is a `text`, ES (using the `standard` analyzer) splits the content in tokens ['SBES', 'DDR4',
10000]. So, for example, if you are looking for a product with `DDR4` RAM and, for some reason, the string `DDR4` is
present in the reference code of some product X, the product X will be selected, even if it doesn't have `DDR4` in its
description. It is an error.

So, the script `./reindex.sh` aims to fix it, setting the type `keyword` to `reference` property. The `DDR4` problem
won't happen again because, from now on, ES won't tokenize the content present in the `reference` property.

== Applications

=== eureka-server

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`eureka-server`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects eureka-server
----

=== product-api

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`product-api`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects product-api
----

=== product-ui

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`product-ui`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects product-ui
----

== Applications URLs

|===
|Application |URL

|eureka-server
|http://localhost:8761

|product-api
|http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

|product-ui
|http://localhost:8081
|===

== Some screenshots of product-ui

==== Product list screen

image::images/product-list.png[]

==== Product edit screen

image::images/product-edit.png[]

==== Product view/comment screen

image::images/product-view-comment.png[]

== Elasticsearch REST API

- Alias: `ecommerce`
- Index: `ecommerce_v1`
- New Index: `ecommerce_v2`
- Type: `product`
- REST API Format: `http://host:port/index/type/_action-OR-id`

==== Check ES is up and running

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200
----

==== Create _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X PUT localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1 \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{ "mappings": { "product": { "properties": { "name": { "type": "text" }, ... }'
----

==== Check indexes in ES

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v
----

==== Check _ecommerce_v1_ index mapping

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1/_mapping
----

==== Delete _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1
----

==== Create alias for _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_aliases \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "actions": [{ "add": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v1" }}]}'
----

==== Check existing ES alias

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/_aliases
----

==== Reindex from _ecommerce_v1_ to _ecommerce_v2_

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_reindex \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "source": { "index": "ecommerce_v1" }, "dest": { "index": "ecommerce_v2" }}'
----

==== Adjust alias after reindex from _ecommerce_v1_ to _ecommerce_v2_

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_aliases \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "actions": [{ "remove": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v1" }}, { "add": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v2" }}]}'
----

==== Simple search

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/ecommerce/product/_search
----

== Shutdown

Run the following command to stop and remove containers, networks and volumes

[source]
----
docker-compose down -v
----

== TODO

- add some Ajax calls, for example, when adding a comment, so the page doesn't need to be refreshed (https://grokonez.com/java-integration/integrate-jquery-ajax-post-get-spring-boot-web-service);
- add same nav bar to all pages & add home button;
- add pagination. now, it is just returning all products;
- add functionality to delete products;

== Reference

- https://www.baeldung.com/spring-cloud-netflix-eureka
- https://dzone.com/articles/microservice-architecture-with-spring-cloud-and-do
- https://www.digit.in/laptops-reviews

Commit message:

update README and product-api application yml

README.adoc, after:

= `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf`

The goal of this project is to implement two https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/[`Spring Boot`]
applications: `product-api` and `product-ui`. `product-api` is a Restful Web Service that manages products. It uses
https://www.elastic.co[`Elasticsearch`] as storage. `product-ui` is a client of `product-api`. It uses
https://www.thymeleaf.org/[`Thymeleaf`] as HTML template.

== Start Environment

Open a terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder run

[source]
----
docker-compose up -d
----

Wait a little bit until the docker containers are up and healthy. To check it, run

[source]
----
docker-compose ps
----

== Configure index, alias and insert some products in ES

In a terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf/scripts`, run the following script to create the
index `ecommerce_v1` with the alias `ecommerce`

[source]
----
./create-index.sh
----

If you want to insert some products, run

[source]
----
./insert-products.sh
----

If you want to fix the `reference` property mapping error (explained below), run

[source]
----
./reindex.sh
----

=== Reindex

The script `./reindex.sh` is used to reindex from an index to another index. The default will reindex from `ecommerce_v1`
to `ecommerce_v2`. The only difference between `mapping-v1.json` (used by `ecommerce_v1`) to `mapping-v2.json` (used by
`ecommerce_v2`) is the `type` of the `reference` property. In the former is set `text` and in the latter, `keyword`.

It is interesting because, the `reference` property has some special characters. An example of `reference` code is
`SBES@DDR4-10000`. As it is a `text`, ES (using the `standard` analyzer) splits the content in tokens ['SBES', 'DDR4',
10000]. So, for example, if you are looking for a product with `DDR4` RAM and, for some reason, the string `DDR4` is
present in the reference code of some product X, the product X will be selected, even if it doesn't have `DDR4` in its
description. It is an error.

So, the script `./reindex.sh` aims to fix it, setting the type `keyword` to `reference` property. The `DDR4` problem
won't happen again because, from now on, ES won't tokenize the content present in the `reference` property.

== Applications

=== eureka-server

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`eureka-server`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects eureka-server
----

=== product-api

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`product-api`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects product-api
----

=== product-ui

In a new terminal and inside `springboot-elasticsearch-thymeleaf` root folder, run the following command to start
`product-ui`

[source]
----
./mvnw spring-boot:run --projects product-ui
----

== Applications URLs

|===
|Application |URL

|eureka-server
|http://localhost:8761

|product-api
|http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

|product-ui
|http://localhost:8081
|===

== Some screenshots of product-ui

==== Product list screen

image::images/product-list.png[]

==== Product edit screen

image::images/product-edit.png[]

==== Product view/comment screen

image::images/product-view-comment.png[]

== Elasticsearch REST API

- Alias: `ecommerce`
- Index: `ecommerce_v1`
- New Index: `ecommerce_v2`
- Type: `product`
- REST API Format: `http://host:port/index/type/_action-OR-id`

==== Check ES is up and running

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200
----

==== Create _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X PUT localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1 \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{ "mappings": { "product": { "properties": { "name": { "type": "text" }, ... }'
----

==== Check indexes in ES

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v
----

==== Check _ecommerce_v1_ index mapping

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1/_mapping
----

==== Delete _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/ecommerce_v1
----

==== Create alias for _ecommerce_v1_ index

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_aliases \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "actions": [{ "add": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v1" }}]}'
----

==== Check existing ES alias

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/_aliases
----

==== Reindex from _ecommerce_v1_ to _ecommerce_v2_

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_reindex \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "source": { "index": "ecommerce_v1" }, "dest": { "index": "ecommerce_v2" }}'
----

==== Adjust alias after reindex from _ecommerce_v1_ to _ecommerce_v2_

[source]
----
curl -X POST localhost:9200/_aliases \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{ "actions": [{ "remove": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v1" }}, { "add": {"alias": "ecommerce", "index": "ecommerce_v2" }}]}'
----

==== Simple search

[source]
----
curl http://localhost:9200/ecommerce/product/_search
----

== Shutdown

Go to `eureka-server`, `product-api` and `product-ui` terminals and press `ctrl-c`

Then, to stop and remove containers, networks and volumes

[source]
----
docker-compose down -v
----

== TODO

- add some Ajax calls, for example, when adding a comment, so the page doesn't need to be refreshed (https://grokonez.com/java-integration/integrate-jquery-ajax-post-get-spring-boot-web-service);
- add same nav bar to all pages & add home button;
- add pagination. now, it is just returning all products;
- add functionality to delete products;

== Reference

- https://www.baeldung.com/spring-cloud-netflix-eureka
- https://dzone.com/articles/microservice-architecture-with-spring-cloud-and-do
- https://www.digit.in/laptops-reviews
